All right.
So we've completed our initial each team on CSX but I want to just add a little bit of JavaScript here
to make this dynamic.
OK so we're going to add some lines of JavaScript in a j ust file and then we're going to edit the CSX
a little bit because we need to kind of change how this works.
Basically what we need to do is check to see as we scroll down we need to fire off an event that's going
to check to see if a certain list item certain box here is actually in the viewport.
OK.
So right now the python one is not in the viewport but when I scroll down it starts to enter.
It is.
Now when it hits that point.
We want this to basically just come in fade in from the right or from the left on this side and the
way that we're going to do that is with JavaScript we're going to add dynamically add a class called
show which will add a transform to to bring it in.
OK.
We're gonna initially hide these things at first and then the show class will allow them to basically
animate in.
So let's create a new file called Main dot J.S. the javascript file and I'm going to paste this code
in.
And again this is not a javascript course so I'm not going to explain every single line here but basically
what's going on is we're grabbing onto all the timeline list items so basically each of these and we're
putting it in a variable called items and then down here we have a function called Run which is looping
through those items.
So it's going through each one and it's checking to see if it's in the viewport.
That's what this function does right here.
And if it is in the viewport it's going to add the class of show.
All right.
So that's exactly what this does it loops through all of these list items checks to see if it's in the
viewport if it is it adds the class of show.
Now down here we're just firing it off.
We're firing off this run when the page loads.
OK.
So when the page loads if anything is in the viewport it's going to just slide in also on resize so
if we resize the browser it'll run.
And then if we scroll it will also run.
So every time something enters the viewport it should add the class of show.
Now that's all javascript is doing is adding this this class of show we have to handle the rest of it
in the CSX.
So you can see how they work together.
So let's save this file and let's go to index each team Ali make sure we include it and JavaScript files
for ninety nine percent of the time you want to include them at the bottom of the page right above the
body.
So we're going to put a script tag and we're going to add a source attribute pointing to main dot J.S.
and we'll save.
OK.
Now nothing is going to happen yet because all we've done is included the javascript.
But I can show you if we open up our chrome tools here let's actually just make this bigger.
Now I want to show you what the javascript file is actually doing.
So I'm going to go to elements and if we look at our you'll notice that these allies all have a class
of show.
OK.
So even though this this fourth one here is in the viewport it's it's it has to be fully in the viewport.
So if I scroll down a little bit as soon as it's fully in the viewport notice that this class of show
got added.
If I keep scrolling as soon as the next one is fully in the viewport just watch over here on the right.
Keep scrolling there's that one that one.
So it's just it's just adding that class of show to the document object model.
So it's adding that class to the ally.
And that's exactly what we want the javascript to do.
Now we have to handle the rest and CSX.
So let's jump over to styled dot CSX and I'm going to add a couple of things in a few places so I mean
by default we don't want this stuff to show unless the class of show is added to it.
Right.
So let's go to the div.
OK so this box is the UL allied div and we want to add on here a visibility of hidden.
And then we want to also add an opacity value of zero.
Now when I save this and we go back everything disappears which is what we want because we'll we're
going gonna make it so they only show if the class of show is on them which they are right now but we
haven't added the rest of the the CSF that we need.
So right here for the the right side and the left side we actually want to have these pushed over a
little bit.
So actually I'm going to comment what we just did out these two lines for a second because I do want
these to show I'm going to just close this up so we can see both at the same time.
So we'll go like right here.
All right.
Now for the left and right we want these to come in.
You know this will come in this way.
This will come in this way.
So I'm going to add an initial transform value of translate and we want to say we want do we want to
do 200 pixels on the x axis.
Okay I guess we could do translate X but we'll just do it this way.
So translate on the x axis 200 pixels.
Now if I save this over here you can see that this is now pushed over two hundred pixels and we want
to go to the left side.
We're going to pace this in the same thing except we're gonna do negative two hundred pixels because
we want it to be pulled over that way.
Now once the show class hits we want these to come in.
So basically we want them to go to trance transform translate 0 to bring them back.
So let's add the show class we'll go I guess what we'll go right we'll go at the bottom here and we'll
say show boxes we want to grab the timeline you l l ally with the class of show and then the div came
remember the div is what is is the box really.
So we want to set transform
to none.
OK.
Because we set the transform to be offset on each side initially but as soon as they're shown we want
them to come in to transform none which would just be you know set them to their their natural spot.
So if I save this and I reload you can see that the ones that have the class of show are coming in now.
We want to make these disappear so let's go back up to the visibility and opacity and let's uncommon
that case.
Now if we save that everything should disappear.
But if we go back down to the show we want to set the visibility to visible.
We also want to set the opacity to 1 which is which is just solid opaque.
All right.
So let's save this.
And now remember that when the page loads the first three you already have the class of show because
they're in the viewport and then I'm going to scroll down a little bit and as soon as the Ruby on Rails
one gets in the viewport it slides in.
Next one slides in.
Next one slide.
So what's all that's going on with the JavaScript as it's adding the class of show and then then the
CSX we're saying you know initially make everything disappear but as soon as that show is added to the
to the DOM here to the list item we want that div to transform none meaning come back to its original
spot and also display with the visibility visible and opacity 1.
Now the last thing I want to do is I want these dots here to be white by default.
And then as soon as the show classes comes in then it will be blue.
So let's go up to a we created the DOT which is right here we used ally after and we created the 25
pixel heighten with border radius 50 percent and we have the background set to the secondary color.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy this background secondary color and then change this one
to just inherit.
OK so if I save that now they're going to be white.
But down here let's go right under where we put the the Allied dots show div and we're gonna do timeline
U L L I dot show and remember the after.
That's where the DOT is so we're going to do after and then we'll paste in the background secondary
colors.
So this dot is gonna get the background of the secondary color when the show class is added so let's
save.
And now you can see that the first three are blue.
This one down here is white.
But as soon as it comes in it turns blue.
All right so that's gonna be a guys hopefully you enjoyed this little project here and learn quite a
bit about CSX and transitions and how to integrate it with JavaScript and don't worry if you don't understand
every line of the javascript.
Basically though it's just looking to see if an element if a list item is in the viewport if it is it's
adding a class of show that's all the script is doing.
All right.
So that's it.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.